Getting started                        {#getting-started}
============

Once you have installed the WRENCH library, following the instructions
on the [installation page](@ref install),  you are ready to create a WRENCH
simulator.  **Information on what can be simulated and how to do it are
provided in the [WRENCH 101](@ref wrench-101) and [WRENCH 102](@ref wrench-102) 
pages. This page is only about the logistics of setting up a simulator project.**

[TOC]

# Using the WRENCH initialization tool #      {#getting-started-wrench-init}

The `wrench-init` tool is a project generator built with WRENCH, which creates a simple
project structure as follows:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
project-folder/
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── CMakeModules
│   └── FindSimGrid.cmake
│   └── FindWRENCH.cmake
├── src/
│   ├── Simulator.cpp
│   ├── Controller.cpp
├── include/
│   └── Controller.h 
├── build/
└── data/
    └── platform.xml
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `Simulator.cpp` source file contains the `main()` function of the simulator, which
initializes a simulated platform and services running on this platform;
`Controller.h` and `Controller.cpp` contain the implementation of an execution
controller, which executes a workflow on the available services. The simulator
takes as command-line argument a path to a platform description file in XML, 
which is available in `data/platform.xml`. These
files provide the minimum necessary implementation for a WRENCH-enabled simulator.

The `wrench-init` tool only requires a single argument, the name of the folder where
the project skeleton will be generated: 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
$ wrench-init <project_folder>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 
Additional options supported by the tool can be found by using the `wrench-init --help` 
command.

Of course, you do not have to use `wrench-init`, especially if you're used to 
creating your own CMake projects. But you still may want to look at the 
`CMakeLists.txt` file generated by `wrench-init`. In particular, note that 
`CMakeLists.txt` uses the `FindSimgrid.cmake` and `FindWRENCH.cmake` files, which are placed
by `wrench-init` in the `CMakeModules` directory. 


# Example WRENCH simulators  #         {#getting-started-example}

The examples in the `examples` directory provide good starting points
for developing your own simulators.  Examples are provided for the generic
"action" API as well as for the "workflow" API, and are built along with the
WRENCH library and tools. See the `examples/README.md` file for a brief description
of all examples. Examples can be built by typing `make examples` in the build directory.

For instance, the `examples/action_api/basic-examples/bare-metal-bag-of-actions` example can be executed 
as: 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~{.sh}
$ wrench-example-bare-metal-bag-of-actions 6 two_hosts.xml --log=custom_wms.threshold=info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(File `two_hosts.xml` is in the `examples/action_api/basic-examples/bare-metal-bag-of-actions` directory.)
You should see some output in the terminal. The output in white is
produced by the simulator's main function. The output
in green is produced by the execution controller implemented with
the WRENCH developer API.

Although you can inspect the codes of the examples on your own, we highly
recommend that you go through the [Simulation 101](@ref simulation-101), [WRENCH 101](@ref wrench-101) and 
[WRENCH 102](@ref wrench-102) pages first. These  pages make direct references to the
examples, a description of which is available in `examples/README.md`
in the WRENCH distribution.
